Team: HvZ App


Members: Santiago Rodriguez, Alex Hadley, Matthew Waddell, Kyra Clark


Project 1D.2 — Postmortem Analysis
        Report: https://github.com/alexhad6/HvZ-app/blob/master/Administrative/Phase%201/postmortem_1.txt
        Primary author: Kyra
Phase 1 Postmortem


In this phase of the project, we did the research to build a final proposal for our project. Below is a list of the things we learned, what worked well and what has room for growth in our process. 
1A–B: Concept, Management Plan, Competitive Research, and Preliminary Requirements
Writing up the concept definition and management plan for our project went well. For these documents, we collaborated live in a couple Zoom meetings, which went smoothly. We were able to set up a GitHub repository to store project-related documents, and figured out how to use a standard submission prologue and upload our assignments to Sakai. The management plan was helpful in scheduling future portions of the project and staying on schedule. Meeting agendas were useful in making sure that our meetings were structured, and assigning people to make an agenda for each meeting helped to ensure that they were created. Also, assigning a primary person responsible for turning in each assignment beforehand turned out to be a nice way to divide the work and make sure that our assignments were turned in on time.
For the competitor research, we divided the work among the four of us and then met to review our findings. Dividing the work worked well for this portion since these tasks could be done by individuals in parallel. Our requirements brainstorming session was done together in a Zoom meeting and went well. We spent a lot of time discussing and understanding the current HvZ website’s features and their usefulness. There was not a lot of pushback from team members to suggested requirements at this point, but people were open to discuss concerns about particular ideas.
From this phase, we learned that sometimes it is more efficient to split up the work and then consolidate our findings. In general, our system for meetings and completing assignments was working. As for our more standard planning and ongoing management of activities, we agreed early on to have weekly check-up meetings on Mondays to set priorities for the week, enabling work to be directed in the absence of a group setting. Because the project was still in an ill-defined early stage, our meetings often had long pauses with less productive discussion. To improve our communication early on, we could have been more active in discussions and embraced the fear of “bad” ideas and ambiguity. From this mistake, we learned to improve general communication between each other during meetings and in our project group chat.
1C: Customer Requirements Elicitation Planning, Execution, and Results Analysis
        In order to organize the elicitation session, we reached out to users via email, Facebook posts, and direct messages. Overall, this was a relatively unorganized task, because it was difficult to coordinate with people outside this project in an online setting. This is likely why we did not receive the attendance we were expecting in our Elicitation Session. The communication within our group could be improved as well. The lack of responses in our group chat was brought up in a meeting this week, and since then overall written confirmation and communication has improved within ourselves in the group chat. 
        During the elicitation session, morale increased as we began to feel more like a connected team. Part of this was because the elicitation session did go well. This could also be in part due to a misunderstanding between the professor and our group. After the session, the professor criticized us for not having a scribe. However, we knew that we did have a scribe, and we all quickly rushed to defend him during the meeting. This misunderstanding became a funny story for our group to look back on. Despite the professor’s incorrect assumption, we did develop a better note-taking strategy from his comments. The scribe struggled to summarize the points at the end of the meeting because there were near too many detailed notes. What we should have done was have another person view the scribe’s notes and highlight the important bits, such that we can easily see the parts to return to. 
Later that week, we worked hard on re-analyzing the requirements. Because this was such an important aspect of the project, we insisted that this all be done together. While this practise did lead to overall stronger group coherence and understanding of the project, it made this process take significantly longer. Our team spent nearly 6-7 hours on the analysis document alone. To save time, perhaps we could have done this individually and reviewed our work together. In addition, we could have prepared more for this meeting to better understand and plan for the large amount of work that we would have to do. On the other hand, working on the requirements together did help us gain a better understanding of what we want out of our product. At this stage of the project, we began to more strongly encourage and push back on some earlier ideas. This discourse was conducted in a healthy way, as we all were careful to respect each other’s ideas and opinions, while being open to new ideas and critical feedback. Everybody was careful not to grow too attached to a particular feature or idea, which allowed us to more openly criticize them and develop a stronger shared group conception of the app. 
A final struggle of this week was that one group member failed to turn the analysis in on time, despite the fact that we did the work and finished it on time. Even though some members of the group were disappointed with this, nobody was rude to the person. We later had a discussion about this event and how to avoid it in the future. We want to further state that teammates are fully responsible for turning in their specified assignments. After they turn it in, they should send a confirmation to the group chat to let everyone know. We also decided that it is okay for other members of the team to remind the person responsible in the group chat. This was not done before out of fear of distrust or “nagging.” In our discussion, we declared that we all fully trust and respect each other and we want to encourage people to remind us, as this will be helpful and not considered rude or nagging. 
1D: Final Proposal and Postmortem Meetings
For the organization and creation of the final proposal, we had implemented some efficient strategies despite misunderstanding the proposal’s requirements. After having learned from past meetings prolonged despite diminishing returns we purposely cut the meeting short rather than incur inefficiency due to requirement ambiguity. By directly communicating with the prof, it helped clarify goals of the proposal, and we were able to later address the proposal much more effectively. The meetings held after were stylized as productive, free form brainstorming sessions, which were useful in our solo work on our individual portion of the finalized proposal. 
Overall Conclusions
        Overall, we learned that we need to split up work more to stay efficient during our meetings. Not all of us need to be working on the same thing at once; we can trust each other to get the job done. Organizational tools such as agendas and the management plan were essential for keeping us on track. The two meetings that we didn’t have agendas were the ones when we were least efficient. Another meeting technique that worked well was taking breaks during long meetings. This allowed us to keep our energy up until we were done. The diligence that we put into each part of this phase of the project paid off because the next phase had a solid foundation to be done well. We wouldn’t be able to put in the effort that we have if we hadn’t started early in the week for each part of the project. We’ll continue this going forward to maintain the quality of our work.
        While we had things that worked well, there are also things that we need to improve on and things that we already have improved on from the outset. One major thing that we’re working on is attendance and punctuality. A member missed a meeting, and a few times some members have been late without notice. We’ve discussed this and agreed that we should set alarms or other types of reminders to make sure we make it to the meeting. If any complications arise, we’ll let each other know in advance (or as soon as possible) so that we are not wondering where other members are. Anyone who misses is expected to catch themselves up before the next meeting so that it doesn’t become wasted time during the meeting. Communication was a slight problem in the beginning, but towards the end, we were able to be more responsive and candid with our thoughts. This improved the quality of our time spent together and overall mood of the team. We’ll continue this sort of communication going forward.
        Lastly, we noticed that some of our meetings went longer than expected, causing us to schedule new meetings. This wasn’t a problem in terms of getting the deliverables done in time, but it did reflect that we had not adequately assessed the amount of time needed to complete the task. We plan on spending more time at the end of each meeting to assess the work needed to be done before and during the next meeting. We hope to eliminate redundancies in our work by scheduling more individual tasks before the meetings.